if you don't want to be like everyone
else then you have to make the
sacrifices others aren't willing to make
that's what my mentor told me when I was
in my early 20s and it stuck with me
ever since I started out with no
qualifications and no money but still
managed to become a multi-millionaire
and a big part of that was down to
avoiding the seven things I'm going to
be sharing with you today the first
thing to avoid is working for only money
imagine for a moment that you got a
boring but well-paid job you quickly
start stacking some nice cash as your
earnings grow your friends will think
that you're absolutely killing it and
your parents will probably be pretty
proud too however over time your earning
potential would start to Plateau this is
path a now imagine instead you get a
challenging but lower pay job you might
struggle for a couple of years as you
improve and adapt you may even struggle
to pay the bills your friends will
probably think you're falling behind and
your parents may not agree with the path
you've taken however over time your
earning potential will start going
through the Ruth this is path B so
what's the difference between these two
examples well path a prioritizes money
early on whereas path B prioritizes two
key things skills and Equity every
self-made millionaire I know has
followed path b as it's the only way to
build that kind of wealth as I mentioned
I left school at 16 with no
qualifications however I immediately
went out looking for jobs and actually
got offered more than five opportunities
so I had a big decision to make which
should I choose I decided to become a
carpenter's Apprentice the pay wasn't
great but I knew the skills I'd learn
would be extremely valuable so I
prioritized those there was no way I was
going to get equity in the business but
at least I was working for more than
just money that job taught me a lot and
although I was forced to quit after
being relentlessly bullied by my manager
manager I still use many of those skills
today when I'm designing my bestselling
brand of radio controled planes that I
sell across the world by learning a wide
range of high income skills it makes it
almost impossible for you to ever be
broke again as you become your greatest
asset I like to think every job I had
when I was younger added to my skill set
like a Swiss army knife nowadays I'd
recommend prioritizing online based High
income skills such as copywriting video
editing and cod in the demand for these
skills is only growing and I can speak
from experience that there is a huge
skill shortage at the moment sure there
are lots of people doing those things
however 99% of them are just not up to
standard honestly your competition
really isn't that tough now let's move
on to the second thing Equity this just
means owning a percentage of a business
so you can benefit from the profits my
radar control model brand is a perfect
example of this you can gain equity in a
few different ways the most obvious way
and the way I did it was to start the
business myself however you can also
gain it by working for it if you're
extremely skilled in certain areas this
is known as Sweat Equity lastly you can
purchase equity in certain businesses
although I wouldn't recommend this as
much unless you have the skills that can
help accelerate that business forward my
friend Simon squib often goes around in
public telling people to start their own
businesses or ask for equity from their
boss while I 100% agree with the
sentiment you need to have some
self-awareness with this firstly it's
worthwhile working for someone to gain
skills before starting a business of
your own secondly you need to be
realistic I didn't think for a moment
that I'd get equity in the carpentry
business when I was an apprentice so
when you ask make sure you have a solid
case for why you deserve it and how you
can add value to the business instead of
just taking from it you need to First
focus on becoming someone Worthy of
equity the main takeaway here is that
too many people get blinded by money
forgetting the importance of skills and
Equity this is the biggest trap the more
you obsess over earning just money the
less you'll likely make in the long run
the second thing to avoid is buying a
luxury lifestyle picture yourself
cruising through Dubai sundrenched
streets in a bright yellow Lamborghini
you pull up to a Swanky restaurant and
order a $500 fet steak without batting
an eyelid how does do imagining that
lifestyle make you feel pretty
successful right well here's the truth
most people you see living this way are
far from successful the majority are
paying for cars they can't afford taking
trips to Dubai on credit cards they'll
spend 5 months paying off and ordering
Stakes at Salt Bay restaurant that leave
them with a bill they can't handle these
people are living a lie pretending to be
rich while drowning in death it's all
smoke and mirrors as it's much easier to
impress others on social media than
build real wealth seeing people live
these luxury Lifestyles might tempt you
to start playing the flexing game too as
you feel like everyone is living a
better life than you however this is far
from the reality in fact 37% of
Americans can't afford unexpected
expenses over
$400 39% worry they can't pay their
bills and 60% of American households
can't afford to buy a new car once
you've made your Millions you can buy
whatever you want
that's the point of becoming wealthy
however in the early days you can't live
like a king and build wealth at the same
time instead of buying depreciating
items like flashy cars designer clothes
and dining in expensive restaurants
invest in assets such as stocks shares
crypto and real estate these assets will
increase in value and generate income
that you can then use to do whatever you
want the third thing to avoid is doing
everything yourself you might be really
great at what you do but no matter how
hard you try you'll never be able to out
compete a group of talented people
working together look at anyone who's
made it big in sports or business if you
do some digging you'll see they all had
help let's take Elon Musk as an example
on the surface it might appear like he's
a genius entrepreneur who's achieved
everything
single-handedly however that couldn't be
further from the truth he was part of
the group that launched PayPal when eBay
acquired PayPal for $1.5 billion in 2002
these newly wealthy Tech experts spread
across the industry like a virus now
they're known as the PayPal Mafia as
they've become such a powerful Group
after leaving PayPal they started many
successful companies these include big
names like YouTube Yelp LinkedIn and
SpaceX they often invest in each other's
projects and give advice but what if
you're not aiming to launch the next
billion dollar company and instead just
want to earn some extra money with a
side hustle well a lot of older business
owners are kind of lost when it comes to
everything tech-based and using the
internet for their companies I mean a
lot of them don't even know there's
online tools for literally everything
whether it's managing your team handling
invoices keeping track of projects or
even building a website I don't blame
them as back in the day we didn't have
any of these things but now the younger
generation has a real Advantage so if
these older business owners don't know
how to do a lot of this online stuff and
they understand they can't do everything
themselves guess who they need you you
can help them bring their businesses
into the 21st century and make a lot of
money in the process it's all well and
good saying this but how could you
actually do it well if you want to give
this a try then I'd recommend using an
all-in-one management platform ODU is a
great choice as it includes the tools I
just mentioned and more all in one place
here's a great example of a website that
needs a proper update it looks like it
was built over 10 years ago let's jump
on Odo and make something a bit more up
to date so I'm going to go over here and
select the eCommerce app option now
let's fill this in I want a Business
website there we go and I want for my
gardening business after this I've got
the option to choose my color palette
here but instead I'm just going to add
their logo so that ODU just builds a
palette based on their brand colors now
we've got to pick a theme all these look
pretty good so let's go with this one I
can use the drag and drop feature to
easily edit the page and customize
images they also have this cool AI tool
to help me out with words let's fast
forward about 30 minutes and I'll have
something pretty cool to show
you check this out it's way better than
the old website in my opinion you could
make some serious cash helping out older
business owners with all the different
apps on ODU or even use it to manage
your own business I reached out to ODU
to see if they wanted to sponsor this
portion of the video they agreed and are
also giving you your first application
free for life with unlimited support and
hosting and the cherry on top ODU offers
a personalized domain name for one year
so if you want to give this a try then
check out the link in the description
the fourth thing to avoid is having too
many inputs do you ever feel like you're
being pulled in a million different
directions this happens with everything
in life from side hustles to Fitness
training everyone seems to have a
different opinion on what you should be
focusing on it can look a little bit
like this
this is you and these are the people
telling you what they think you should
be focusing on for the sake of
Simplicity let's just call them inputs
all these inputs create hundreds of
paths you could follow like becoming a
doctor entrepreneur joining the family
business getting a stable 9-to-5 job
traveling and having a family let's call
these your potential paths the sheer
number of these paths Pathways can
create something called cognitive
overload which is where your brain
simply can't cope with the overwhelming
amount of information and choices so
what's the solution well I've always
started with my end destination in mind
and worked backwards of course I didn't
know exactly what I wanted to do in the
future however I had a decent idea I
then made sure to only listen to inputs
that help me reach those targets the
clearer your goal the easier it becomes
to select the right inputs to help you
achieve it so limit the number of
opinions you receive and prioritize
quality over quantity most people have
too many opinions being thrown at them
but not from experts cut out General
opinions and instead seek expert advice
this could come from a mentor someone
successful in your field or even
educational videos from experts like
myself by doing this you'll get more
valuable focused and specific guidance
for your end goal remember even when you
work Your Way backwards you still don't
need to know everything at once fully
listen and Implement what you learn from
an input and then when you're facing
another challenge you can seek out more
inputs that'll help you overcome it if
you don't do this then you'll get mental
fatigue which can lead to decision
paralysis where you find yourself unable
to take action or move forward some
people might even mistake this for being
lazy but in reality your brain just gets
overwhelmed the fifth thing to avoid is
being ego driven let me start by saying
this arrogant people won't even finish
this video they think they already know
everything so why bother sticking around
but that's exactly the problem arrogance
blinds you to the opportunities that
could genuinely change your life
ego-driven people are often too focused
on the big picture constantly dreaming
of the end goal this might sound
productive but it's a dangerous trap
when you're always looking too far ahead
you end up overlooking the small but
crucial step steps that lead to True
success for example some might be
tempted to scroll through this video
just to see all seven things rather than
sitting down and actually absorbing the
knowledge in each one but by doing so
they miss out on the valuable insights
that could Fast Track their Journey when
you're too egotistical you start to
believe that you don't need advice from
others especially those who might know
more than you you might dismiss the
wisdom of people who have already walked
the path that you're trying to take but
here's the truth true wealth isn't just
about being confident it's about having
the humility to keep learning to
understand that you don't know it all
and that's where the real growth happens
the more you learn the more you realize
how much you don't know this is called
the iceberg principle what you know is
just the tip of the iceberg the massive
chunk of knowledge is underneath the
surface that's what truly matters and
arrogance makes you forget that it's
even there in short arrogance is a
silent wealth killer it convin es you
that you're too good to learn too smart
to listen and too important to take the
small steps that lead to Greatness the
sixth thing to avoid is passing the
blame one of my favorite Chinese
Proverbs is the man who blames others
has a long way on his journey to go the
man who blames himself is halfway there
the man who blames no one has already
arrived in front of me I have two
objects a magnifying glass and a mirror
in life you're going to have to choose
to reach for either of these on a daily
basis you might be thinking Mark's gone
mad but let me explain if you choose to
pick up the magnifying glass it gives
you the ability to hyperfocus on other
people this is a dangerous path as it
leads to the blame game look I do kind
of get it when anything goes wrong in
life it's natural to want to pass the
blame on to someone else anyone but
yourself I'm sure there's been times
when you've blamed your teacher for a
test you failed even though you spent
more time Bing watching n and actually
studying or maybe you pass the blame on
to the traffic for being late even
though you left the house 10 minutes
later than you should have but here's
the thing these small instances of blame
don't stay small over time they grow
into a habit that's hard to break free
from I'm sure you've seen people say
stuff like the government hates young
people the system is rigged against
people like me my boss doesn't like me
I'm not rich enough to start a business
and life didn't give me the right
opportunities the more you reach for the
magnifying glass the bigger your excuses
become however if you pick the mirror
then you instead focus on the stuff you
can actually control your own thoughts
and actions so to embody the wisdom of
the Chinese proverb to be the person who
has already arrived at their destination
you need to pick up the mirror not the
magnifying glass the seventh thing to
avoid is staying static this is your
comfort zone where you Retreat seeking
in Safety and Security notice how there
are no gaps in this circle almost like a
self-imposed prison with no way out and
no way to grow if you're currently here
then you're not alone According to some
studies over half of Brits don't leave
their comfort zone and 45% of them are
worried that one day they might regret
it so what can you do to break out of
this prison well you need to expand the
circle this could be really difficult
when our minds are conditioned to avoid
taking risks but it's something I
learned at an early age let me show you
how I did it when I was younger my
comfort zone was narrow school studying
subjects I wasn't good at like maths and
English the traditional education system
didn't suit me I didn't want to be a
banker doctor or lawyer I wanted
something more Hands-On so I stepped out
of my comfort zone and pursued the
apprenticeship I mentioned earlier this
created a new space for me but I wasn't
satisfied yet I knew I needed more from
life so I started experimenting with
side hustles which pushed me further
into unfamiliar territory suddenly the
world was full of possibilities The Next
Step was clear starting my own business
this was a pivotal moment requiring a
big risk a bank load it was the best
decision that I ever made to expand my
Empire further I traveled to China in
search of a manufacturer for my own
brand of radio control models despite
The Language and Cultural barriers I
managed to build valuable connections I
ran my business for many years and
enjoyed success but eventually I felt
complacent my family was happy my bank
was happy but my mind wasn't I wanted
more so I expanded my comfort zone again
and started posting videos on YouTube at
the age of 53 I'd seen so many people on
YouTube faking it so I wanted to share
my knowledge and help others who like me
didn't fit the traditional path or those
who wanted to grow their wealth and feel
more secure in life remember you can
expand your comfort zone as much as you
want this space is infinite but you have
to claim it for yourself if you don't
push beyond your current boundaries
you'll miss out on all the possibilities
that could have been yours if you want
to learn what to do every time you get
paid then I'll leave that video right up
there but don't click on it just yet
make sure to subscribe if you want to
grow your wealth okay I'll see you over
there